Who is Volka Kostylkov?;a 6th grade pupil
Where did the Kostylkov family move?; to a different apartment in a new six storey house
When most of the Kostylkov family belongings were collected?;Most of their belongings had been packed the night before.
Who is Stepanych?;The janitor
What proposal did Volka make to Stepanych?;He gathered his courage and invited Stepanych to visit them at their new home.
What did Volka's father warn his son?;His father had warned him not to go swimming without him
What excuse Volka were taken to swim?;I have to go in for a dip to clear my head. How can I take an exam with a fuzzy brain!
What were the good and bad points that there was not a soul on the bank?;It was nice,  because no one could  stop him  from swimming  as much as he liked. It was bad, because there  was no  one to admire  what  a good  swimmer and  especially  what an extraordinary diver he was.
What did Volka find when he dived into the river for the last time?;moss-covered clay vessel
what happened when Volka scraped the seal from the bottle?;The room immediately filled with choking black smoke, while a noiseless explosion of great force threw him up to the ceiling, where he remained suspended from the hook by the seat of his pants.
Why did Hotabich say that Volka was very lucky to have an examination in geography?;you are exceptionally lucky, for I know more about geography than any other Genie-I
Why did not hottabych get to meet the principal?;You won't be able  to see him  now. He's at an examination.
On what topic did Volka get a ticket for the exam on geography?;he was to speak on India.
Why Volka could not speak his thoughts on the exam but said nonsense?;In agreeing to have Hottabych prompt him, he became a toy in the old  man's well-meaning but ignorant hands.
What is the name of the Volka's teacher?;Varvara Stepanovna
What is the name of the doctor at the school where Volka is studying?;Pyotr  Ivanych
Who was envious of every student of the 6B?;Zhenya Bogorad
Why did each student of the 6B envy Zhenya Bogorad?;This darling of fate was the theatre manager's nephew and therefore permitted to attend evening performances.
Why did Zhenya not see that people were gathering around Volka and old man?;went off to buy an ice-cream.
Who is Hottabych?a mighty Genie - a magician who had been imprisoned in the bottle for nearly two thousand years.
What is the profession of Volka's uncle?;an  excavator  operator
What is the name of Volka's uncle?;Vladimir Nekrasov
why Volka and Hotabych crossed busy streets 20 times?;In  order  to  harden  the  old man's  nerves
What treasures did Volka acquire thanks to Hottabych?;drivers, elephants, camels, mules and all their loads
Why the old man an excuse for an attack of rheumatic was stupid?;for nothing can be sillier than sitting in cold water if you have rheumatism
Because of what Hottabych sulked on Volka?;You hurt me by refusing to accept my humble gifts
Why did Volka and Hottabych leave the second half of the show in the circus?;a geography book opened at the very first chapter awaited Volka at home.
Why did not Hottabych like the performance of the magician?;He felt very hurt, because everyone was applauding the magician for all sorts of trifles, while he,  who had  performed such wonderful miracles from the time he had been liberated from the vessel, had not even heard a  single sincere word of praise, let alone been applauded.
What did hottabych say about the most difficult trick of the magician?;It's  a fake!
Where is this story printed?;Printed in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
can people catch Genies' diseases?;Genies' diseases could not possibly be catching.
how does Volka and Zhenya cure a Genie?;They would treat him  as they  would  a person who had a  cold. They would give him aspirin  and tea with raspberry jam before going to sleep to make him perspire.
What did Volka feel when he thought that Hottabych had died?;he felt he would  miss the old man terribly if he died
Why did Hottabych give gold to passers-by standing on the corner of the street?;And he said, 'I feel my days are counted. I want to hand out alms on this occasion.'
Why did Hottabych ask the Wolf to dive into the Mediterranean Sea and in the Indian Ocean?;Then he  began  to cry  and asked Volka to run down  to the  Mediterranean Sea and the Indian  Ocean and find a copper vessel on the bottom in  which his dear brother  Omar Asaf ibn Hottab was imprisoned.
What did Goga possess that Volka envied him?;pure-breed puppy
Where did Hottabych always lie at Volka's house?;under Volka's bed
What a small detail did Hottabych forget when he presented Volka with a dog?;The  "small  detail"  was  a  collar
What was unreasonable from hottabych when he wrote a letter to the Central Excursion Bureau?;Hottabych had acted unwisely in giving Volka's address for a  reply.
What did hottabych do so that Volka could sleep well on the ship?;Why, nothing much. It's just  that I  so  wanted you to sleep soundly, that I permitted myself to order the engines to stop making noise.